Rules for model
If you don't know the answer, just say I don't know. 

Puppet Theatre Kosice
In 1957, on the initiatives of the head of the Regional Counselling Centre for Folk Art Creativity, Alexander Futas, the founding of a marionette theatre in Kosice was initiated. The Puppet Theatre Kosice is one of the cultural events you can visit in the city of Kosice in Slovakia. A cultural event in Kosice with performances for children, suitable for the whole family. Pets are not allowed. You will find the theatre hall right in the centre, on the corner of Alzbetina and Vratna streets. The large drama hall, also known as the Jorik stage, is located on Tajovskeho Street. Amazing puppet shows are a great attraction not only for the youngest spectators. Adults also like to be transported back to carefree childhood times and enjoy humorous stories or well-known book adaptations. The first premiere attracted an audience on October 3, 1959. It was the fairy tale Gulliver in Maňuskov. In the 1960s, marionettes were added to the puppets on stage. The next decade saw the use of incidental music and the theatre began to present its work with great success at national and international theatre festivals. In 1995, the Jorik drama stage was established at the puppet theatre. The puppet hall was built in the ruins of the town house, where originally art workshops were to be built. The Jorik stage for drama performances for youth and adult audiences also continues to operate. Over the last 50 years of its existence, the theatre has staged more than 180 premieres and has achieved an annual attendance of 30 000 spectators.

State Theatre Kosice
The seat of the State Theatre Kosice is the metropolis of eastern Slovakia, namely Kosice - Stare Mesto. It is a classical professional theatre with three ensembles. If you want to enjoy a really magical atmosphere of opera or ballet, don't miss the opportunity to watch it on the impressive main stage of the State Theatre. The theatre in Kosice rightly ranks among the most beautiful theatres not only in Slovakia, but also in Europe. Every year the theatre plays dozens of titles and hundreds of performances, entertaining tens of thousands of spectators. Suitable for both children and adults. Pets are not allowed. The Kosice theatre is one of the important cultural institutions with nationwide scope. It is a classical professional theatre with three ensembles. If you want to enjoy the truly enchanting atmosphere of opera or ballet, do not miss the opportunity to watch it on the impressive main stage of the State Theatre. The theatre performs dozens of titles and hundreds of performances annually, entertaining tens of thousands of spectators. Part of its work is also oriented towards children and youth. It is interesting to note that the Slovak National Theatre started its activity at the beginning of the 20th century on the boards of the Kosice theatre. The first theatre building in Kosice was put into operation in 1788. The East Slovak National Theatre was founded in 1945 and its first director was Janko Borodáč. In the following years, the name of the theatre was repeatedly changed. The National Theatre in Kosice was finally renamed the State Theatre in 1955.

Singing fountain Kosice
A stunning synchronized theatre of water, music and light. This is the Singing Fountain Kosice situated in the city district of Kosice - between Kosice State Theatre and the St. Elizabeth Cathedral. Its uniqueness lies not only in, that it is undoubtedly the most beautiful fountain in Kosice, but also the first singing fountain in Czechoslovakia. Its beauty attracts holidaying families with children, romantic couples strolling through the evening streets of the city, as well as honeymooners on their evening strolls, offering a unique water spectacle. The singing fountain was built in 1986. Twenty years later, it underwent a major renovation to give it its current unique appearance. It consists of an incredible 750 water nozzles that can spray water up to a height of 19 m. The water spray is regulated by the tones of the music playing. The enchanting performance is enhanced in the evening by the play of lights in five colours.

Craft Alley
Magical little houses, wonderful atmosphere, the smell of freshly baked bread and the sound of the blacksmith's hammer. This is the famous Pottery Street in Kosice, also called the Street of Crafts. It is situated in the city district of Kosice - Old Town, starting at the Calvin Church. Here you can buy bread from a traditional bakery, medicinal herbs from an honest herbalist or artistic products from a master metalworker. And if you get hungry during your walk, be sure to visit one of the smaller pubs or restaurants with a wide range of traditional specialties. Honest Slovak wines are offered by the local wine shop. The alley truly replicates the work, life and crafts of our ancestors. Ideal for families with children, walks with your partner and shopping for unique handicraft products.  About entering with a dog, it is advisable to check the local rules. The pedestrian street, which is flanked on both sides by smaller houses, is covered with period paving. A pleasant walk saturated with a special atmosphere can be enriched by a visit to a blacksmith's workshop, a bakery, a pottery, a herbalist, a satchel maker, an upholsterer, a carver or a shop selling precious stones. In the workshops you can see the work of a master blacksmith or potter, in the satchel-making shop you can have your favourite handbag or bag repaired and in the precious stones shop you can buy your protective amulet. In addition to the permanent attractions, the Craft Alley regularly hosts occasional cultural events and activities. Let yourself be carried away from the hustle and bustle of the big city to the Middle Ages.

St. Elizabeth Cathedral
St. Elizabeth Cathedral is the largest and one of the most beautiful Gothic churches in Slovakia. The Cathedral of St. Elizabeth is a church of the Catholic Church and is also the parish church of the Church of St. Elizabeth Parish in Kosice. It can be found on the Main Street of the second largest city in Slovakia - right in the old town of Kosice. A visit to St. Elizabeth's Cathedral can also be interesting for children, especially if they are curious about history and architecture. Pets are not allowed due to respect for the religious environment and to maintain cleanliness. St Elizabeth's Cathedral is good for family visits, especially if your family is interested in history and culture. The Cathedral of St. Elizabeth is a church of the Roman Catholic Church and at the same time it is the parish church of the Parish of St. Elizabeth in Kosice. It can be found on the Main Street of the second largest city in Slovakia - right in the old town of Kosice. Its area is an impressive 1200 m2. The construction of the dome began at the end of the 14th century and was completed at the beginning of the 15th century. After the first fire of the church in 1380, they decided to build a magnificent temple. The church is built in the Gothic style, but there are elements of the original Romanesque style. The medieval merchants and craftsmen of Kosice not only contributed to the construction, but also regularly contributed financially to it. The cathedral was built with the support of the then ruler Sigismund of Luxembourg and the papal curia. Over the centuries it has undergone several renovations, due to war and fires.

ZOO Kosice
At the beginning of this century, the Kosice Zoo became famous thanks to its bear cubs by entering the Guinness Book of Records. It covers an area of an impressive 289 hectares of the natural environment of Montenegro in Kosice, in the urban area of Kavečany, of which approximately 75 hectares are open to the public. Currently, the zoo is home to more than 240 different species of animals, with fauna from all continents. It opened its doors to visitors in 1986, after seven years of construction. There are playgrounds for children, fireplaces set up for picnics in the open air, and horseback riding is also on offer. One of the newest, which has grown in the area within the framework of the Slovak-Hungarian border cooperation, is the Lužný les nature trail. Kosice Zoo is a suitable destination for the whole family. Unfortunately, entry with a dog is not allowed. Some species of animals you won't find in any other zoo in Slovakia. These include penguins, big-toothed toucans, condors, common seals and Siberian wapiti. The Kosice Zoo can also boast many breeding successes in the number of chicks bred. It even has an entry in the Guinness Book of Records from 2002, when the breeders managed a unique achievement. Bear quintuplets were born here. Since 2017, the zoo has been a full member of the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA), which brings together the world's elite zoos.

East Slovak Gallery
In addition to its extensive collections of quality art, the Kosice gallery also boasts its own library, a modern entrance hall and an independent space called the Extinction of the Planet. The Gallery in Kosice opened its doors to the public in 1951. Since 1992 it has been housed in the Baroque-Classical building of the former County House. Its main mission is to collect, make accessible and preserve art collections, as well as to broaden visitors awareness of Slovak and foreign art. However, the gallery in Eastern Slovakia also boasts other progressive commitments to the public. It presents itself as an inclusive institution, highlighting contemporary pressing issues and following the Green Code. On arrival at the historic gallery building you will be greeted by a modern first point of contact, the entrance hall. In addition to the halls, where the gallery hosts current exhibitions of old and contemporary art, you will also be invited into its own library with a specialised library collection. An interesting venue is an independent space called Planetary Extinction, which the gallery has set up to host events focused on the city, ecology, climate and other topical issues. You can combine a unique art show in Kosice with a walk through the medieval Alley of Crafts. Round off a pleasant day with an evening at the State Theatre Kosice.

Slovak Technical Museum
The most important Slovak museum of technical focus has its seat in the urban district of Kosice - Stare Mesto. The Slovak Technical Museum presents its rich collection to the public in several branches in different parts of Slovakia. In Kosice, in addition to the headquarters building - the architectural landmark of the northern part of the monument reserve, there is also a branch called the Museum of Aviation. The museum's permanent exhibitions will guide you through the world of turbines and engines, office machines and industrial design. The Kosice settlement building stands on the site of the original Gothic buildings from the 13th century. These were rebuilt in the 18th century into a Baroque complex, which served the Hungarian military dignitaries. The name Rakoci Palace also comes from this period. The headquarters building houses 15 permanent exhibitions dedicated to mining, metallurgy, blacksmithing, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, astronomy, geodesy, cartography and physics. The exhibitions History of Metallurgy and Metallurgy in the 19th and 20th Centuries will guide you through the discovery of metallurgy and its development in the context of the Industrial Revolution, and will fascinate you with traditional bell-making. A rich collection of relics of the craftsmanship of the masters of metalworking crafts is presented by the exhibitions Utilitarian and Decorative Objects of Metals and Artistic Blacksmithing. The dominant feature of this part is a unique forged clock machine from the tower of St. Elizabeth Cathedral.

Jakab's Palace
An architectural gem of the eastern metropolis, it stands on the corner of Mlynska and Stefanikova Streets. The Jakab Palace is one of the most beautiful and at the same time one of the most mysterious buildings in Kosice. The construction of the splendid residence of the Jakab family began in 1899. It is a national cultural monument in Neo-Gothic and Art Nouveau style. Interestingly, the scrapped stone elements and decorative elements from the St. Elizabeth Cathedral were used in its construction. The bourgeois villa was built on the bank of the former Mill Embankment, thus completing the beautiful urban idyll. The architect Arpad Jakab designed it according to the model of medieval buildings. Its dominant feature is the quadrilateral tower with four turrets, which is located above the main entrance. The bay windows and roofing are also impressive. On the outer façade of the tower there is a votive plaque on the left side of the arch in honour of the Hungarian King Matthias Corvinus. The Jakab family owned this pompous building only until 1908. Its next owner was Hugo Barkanyi, a prominent Jewish architect. After World War II, the building came under the administration of the town. For some time it became the residence of President Edvard Benes, as evidenced by the commemorative plaque on the south side. Subsequently, an educational and ideological centre of the Communist Party of the Czechoslovak Socialist Party (KSS) with a library focused on political literature was established in the building. For several years now, the palace has been closed to the public due to the pending trial. For now, we can only imagine the beauty of the interior.

Botanical Garden
Especially families with children, mature people and not only students visit the beautiful Botanical Garden of the Pavol Jozef Safarik University, located in the part of Kosice - Sever. You can admire the beauty of plants and various taxa of trees during its opening hours. The  at this university provides the perfect place to relax for all ages. It was created on the northern outskirts of the city. It covers an area of approximately 30 hectares. Visitors have been admiring all its beauty since 1950. During your walk you will see more than 4,000 species of plants with your own eyes. Thanks to this, it ranks among the most important in Central Europe. The area of the botanical garden is protected. Visitors can see the plants in 6 large greenhouses and an outdoor educational area (with a beekeeping and dendrological nature trail) with decorative planting of ornamental or medicinal plants. You may also be interested in the pond, hardy cacti, various citrus and succulents, the arboretum and the mini zoo. The most interesting feature of this garden is the evergreen large-flowered magnolia, which is more than 60 years old. The garden also hosts exhibitions, one of the popular ones being the one where you can see exotic butterflies and take a unique photo with them. The botanical garden is divided into 5 departments, namely, sec. Tropical and subtropical flora, decorative flora section, tropical and subtropical flora section, decorative flora section, tropical and subtropical flora section, tropical and subtropical flora section. arboretum, section. Native flora and documentation, and the economic and operational section.

Urban Tower and Urban Bell
The tower was built in the 2nd half of the 16th century and rebuilt in 1628 by the Presov builder Martin Linder. It was built on the site of the original Gothic tower. A marble plaque above the entrance to the belfry is connected to this construction work. The original Gothic tower was built at the turn of the 14th and 15th centuries as the bell tower of the then under-construction St. Elisabeth Cathedral. After the Great Fire of Kosice, the tower was also destroyed by fire, so the bell was temporarily stored in the town hall. The fire in 1556 destroyed almost the whole town, except for a few houses. A new bell tower was not added until 1628. In 1628, the bell tower housed the bell of St. Urban, which was cast in 1557 by the Olomouc bell-maker Frantisek Illenfeld. This bell was a unique work of bell-ringing art. The inhabitants of Kosice quite understandably dedicated the main bell of their city to St. Urban - the patron saint of wine-growers, because it was once thanks to the wine trade that the city had achieved considerable economic development in the previous centuries. In December 1966 it was the victim of a fire that broke out in the bell tower. The fire originated from a transformer in the tower burned through the supporting beams and the bell collapsed into the burning rubble. During the fire fighting, the bell was torn apart by thermal stress on contact with water.

Synagogue on Pushkin Street
Synagogue on Pushkin Street. It is located directly in the city district of Kosice - Old Town. It was built in 1927 and besides a house of prayer it also consisted of a Jewish school and a school for rabbis. The building of the synagogue is also closely associated with a dark period in the history of the Jewish people. On its walls are visible the messages written in pencil by the Jews who were gathered here before the fateful transport to the concentration camp. In terms of architecture, the Orthodox synagogue is a combination of historical and oriental elements along with elements of cubism. The imposing building has a seating capacity of 800 and its own hot-air heating system. The interior is dominated by modern architecture with a vaulted central hall and a women's gallery separated from the men by a metal mechica. The lectern used for Torah reading is situated on an elevated spot in the middle of the prayer room. The building of the Kosice synagogue is closely connected with the gloomy years of the Second World War. The deportation of the Jews from Kosice to the Nazi camps is commemorated not only by the handwritten inscriptions of the victims on the walls of the building, but also by a bronze Holocaust memorial plaque. It was installed on the front of the synagogue in 1992. According to the data on the plaque, more than 12,000 Jews were taken from Kosice to concentration camps in 1944. The sad fact is that of the thousands of innocent victims of the Holocaust, only about 400 survived. Interestingly, the Orthodox synagogue was the only one that fulfilled its religious purpose even after the war.

DinoPark
Dinopark Kosice is located in the forest valley of the Kavecany district. This park is a part of the Zoological Garden. Start discovering the mysterious lost world of dinosaurs thanks to a number of faithful replicas in the form of sculptures. Life-size models of these prehistoric animals are installed here. You can admire with your own eyes more than 20 scenes depicting their natural habitat more than 65 million years ago. Not only children but also adult visitors open their eyes and mouths here. A cheerful herd of grazing stegosaurs greets you as soon as you enter the site. Treat your little ones to the sight of a Triceratops, a Camptosaurus or the largest predator of the time, a Tyrannosaurus rex. Information boards full of interesting information will also introduce you to the life of these creatures. During your visit to this place you can watch a captivating movie in a 3D cinema. Unique in this park is a living Mesozoic plant that grew on Earth 175 million years ago. With a paintbrush and shovel in hand, kids can play in the paleontology playground. Less patient children prefer to have fun on the playground with climbing frames, slides or swings. When you visit the Journey into the Earth's Past pavilion, you will be treated to various artefacts such as the claws of Tyrannosaurus, the teeth of Deinonychus, wing prints of prehistoric dragonflies or fossils of horsetails also found in the vicinity of Kosice.

Rosto Steak House Restaurant
Treat yourself with a good piece of quality and deliciously prepared meat on a world-class level in a stylish steak house right in the centre of Kosice. Choose from a wide selection of different kinds of steaks, grilled delicacies, and international specialties. The Universal Restaurant offers several salads and vegetarian dishes. You may enjoy a real gastronomic experience by having seasonal dishes, which include, for example, entrecote high roasted steak and roast beef steak from low beef. The wine list has a selection of Slovak and international wines and the current steak house also offers a limited edition of its own wines. Visit with friends or family and experience unique moments. The restaurant has a universal table layout. The premises also include a summer terrace and a lounge. Professional service will take care of the unique atmosphere during a corporate or private meeting.

Olive Tree Restaurant
Since the morning makes the day, we have prepared a breakfast menu that guarantees maximum satisfaction in every respect. In our exclusive hotel restaurant with a seating capacity of up to 80 and a separate summer terrace, every morning starts healthy and delicious. The Olive Tree restaurant is located in the centre of Bratislava on Vysoka Street. It is a lunch restaurant with service, offers mostly classic Slovak daily menu and is engaged in organizing various social events and celebrations. They are also happy to open outside opening hours, i.e. in the evening and on Saturdays and Sundays for private events such as various celebrations, get-togethers, corporate, family or social events. The best restaurant in the Kosice region in the magazine Trend Top rating is characterized by first class Mediterranean and seasonal cuisine in a light, spacious and yet cosy milieu. The best local chefs, specializing in traditional and modern cuisine, and a healthful lifestyle, will prepare food from guaranteed fresh ingredients with the emphasis on the highest quality, under the guidance of the award-winning chef Jozef Hromjak. If you are looking for a good venue for business lunching, you'll get a great impression with the local two-course business menu. In the evening you can come and taste fresh fish. There is also an exclusive wine card that perfectly complements meals from the menu.

Zlaty Dvor - Cafe & Shisha Bar
The best Shisha Bar in Kosice, great cocktails, lemonades and tasty coffee right in the city centre with a pleasant and relaxed atmosphere. Zlaty dvor is one of the few establishments in Kosice that offers professionally processed shisha of world brands such as Moze, Koress, Mamay and others. Of course, quality tobacco and professional service throughout the smoking time are a matter of course. A professionally prepared hookah will guarantee the necessary relaxation after a busy day. A wide range of drinks, fresh and artisanal lemonades for refreshment. Beer drinkers can enjoy Pilsner or Gambrinus on tap. In our offer you will also find tasty coffee. We also offer a wider selection of wines. We also care about cocktails that will amaze you. The energetic staff works hard, stays positive and makes this place wonderful.

Villa Regia Restaurant
Visit our stylish restaurant Villa Regia, established in 2002. Villa Regia's ambience is in the style of an old country restaurant. The interior breathes the atmosphere of times gone by, with solid wooden tables, and comfortable booths in a homely style, a rustic fireplace to enhance the atmosphere as well as period utensils. The wonderful atmosphere in the restaurant is created by the creak of the old, nostalgic wooden floor, the smell of crackling wood in the fireplace and the light of the candles.You will be pleasantly surprised by our friendly and helpful staff, who will be happy to serve you professionally and warmly recommend our specialties to you. We focus on traditional and regional cuisine. Great cuisine, the utmost service, love and attention are synonymous with the stylish Villa Regia restaurant, which is now one of the most popular restaurants in the city.

Republika Vychodu Restaurant
Stop in for a tasty breakfast, lunch, or an honest-to-goodness dinner in the Eastern-speaking Republic of the East. The menu, made up of traditional recipes in a modern design, will enchant you from the first bite. From honest pierogi, sweet pancakes and light salads, there is something for everyone. But you'll be smiling after the first glance at the menu! The Republic of the East can be found right next to St. Elizabeth's Cathedral.

Banco Casino
Banco Casino operates two modern casinos located in the centres of two of Slovakia's largest cities - Bratislava and Kosice. Banco Casino Kosice is located in the heart of the historic city of Kosice on the most famous street Hlavná 1.  Banco Casino meets the highest standards that will meet the expectations of even the most demanding clientele from all over the world. Banco Casino is not just the name of an ordinary casino - it is a symbiosis of classic elegance, style, professionalism, adventure, adrenaline and fun in one place. Banco Casino Kosice covers an area of up to 2,700 square meters in the building of the most famous hotel Double Tree By Hilton Kosice, which also features a VIP lounge.  The modern casino features live games such as the popular Black Jack, Baccarat, Ultimate Texas Hold'em Poker and of course you will also find American Roulette and slot machines of various kinds. Banco Casino Kosice is also the largest poker room in Eastern Slovakia and hosts the largest live poker events.  The casino hosts many interesting and unusual events, festivals, fashion shows and charity events for the general public, but especially for people who love traditional and unconventional entertainment. If you want to taste new experiences combined with never-ending fun, the premises of Banco Casino are open 24 hours seven days a week.

Staromestska Pivaren Restaurant
Really excellent local food. They had most of the items listed in guide books as the local food of Kosice. The staff were very friendly and helpful, the indoor and outdoor tables were comfortable, the menu was reasonable extensive. The prices were good. The quality of the food was exceptional, and the size of portions was good (it was difficult to finish a soup and a main dish!). The beer selection was good. This is a great place for couples, and small or large groups. The Tripadvisor rating is number 10 in the city, other guides put it at number one. Highly Recommended! Dogs are welcome too.

Bowling spot
BowlinG-spot with its pleasant atmosphere and capacity of up to 200 people is an ideal place for corporate events and parties. Spatially, the club is designed in such a way that most members of the entertainment are in contact with the players. Others can enjoy the atmosphere in the restaurant area, which has a fireplace. Players and visitors are provided with a full catering service and have the option to choose from a variety of delicious meals, canapés or tasty drinks. We follow the motto "You don't have to be a professional to come and enjoy a meal with your family, do you?" and that's why the club has space not only for professional players, but also for beginners or recreational players and of course for families with children. In summer you can enjoy the summer terrace, which includes a children's playground with a trampoline and bouncy castles.

Immaculata sculpture - Plague column
On the place of the former execution ground was built in 1722 -1723 by the builders L. Tornyossi and Š. Grimming on the initiative of the postmaster Viktorín Flachenfeld built a Marian (plague) column of the Immaculate P. Mary (Immaculata), which is the most beautiful Baroque sculptural monument in the town. The monument was restored for the first time in 1856 on the order of the Bishop of Kosice Ignác Fábry from voluntary contributions, the second time it was restored by L. Hild from Sopron in 1908. In 1909 the fence was repaired. The sculptures on the pillars of the fence were made by the sculptor L. Hild. During the Second World War the sculpture was damaged and in 1949-1951 and 1971-1972 it was restored by the academic sculptor V. Loffler. 

Food court in Aupark
A varied selection of food, different cuisines of the world all quite quickly cooked, delicious and inexpensive. Ideal place if you don't know what you want to eat.

Pivovar Hostinec
This brewery and restaurant offer a selection of craft beers brewed on-site, accompanied by a menu featuring both Slovak and international dishes. It's a great place for beer lovers.

City park of Kosice
The city park is located in the city center, near the train station. You will not find a bigger park in the city. It is really big! There is a pond, various climbing walls and playgrounds, there is even a swimming pool, a musical gazebo from 1885 and one of the most beautiful fountains in Slovakia - the Floating Fountain. The Historical Pavilion, which is also in the park, was built in 1857 for Emperor Franz Joseph and his wife Sisi. In addition to these attractions, of course, there are many paths, several bridges and a small stream. And from spring to fall, flowers and lilies are sure to grow on the pond.

Kosice (if question will be something like, tell me something about Kosice, write only this info)
Kosice is a city located in eastern Slovakia and is the country's second-largest city after the capital, Bratislava. It is situated on the Hornád River and is the principal city of the Kosice Region. Kosice is one of the oldest towns in Slovakia, with a history dating back to the medieval period. It received its first written mention in 1230.

Top places in Kosice (if question will be about top places write a list only)
State Theatre Kosice, St. Elizabeth Cathedral, Puppet Theatre Kosice, Singing Fountain, Zoo Kosice, City park of Kosice, Synagogue on Pushkin Street, Immaculata sculpture - Plague column, Botanical Garden, Jakab's Palace

Top cafe or restaurants (if question will be about where I can eat write a list only)
Food court in Aupark, Pivovar Hostinec, Rosto Steak House Restaurant, Villa Regia Restaurant, Olive Tree Restaurant
